# Microservices

## What Is a Service?

A service is a piece of software, which basically provides functionality to other pieces of software within your system. It basically provides a service to other pieces of software. The other pieces of software could be anything from a website to a mobile app, or a desktop app, or even another service which uses another service in order to carry out a particular type of functionality. And, the service basically provides functionality to these applications. So, for example in the shopping website context, when a user places an order on the website, the website talks to the service, and the service actually carries out the creation, the update, the deletion, and the retrieval of what is from the database, so it provides functionality to the website application. And the communication between these software components and the service normally happen over a network using some kind of communication protocol. For example, a mobile app might communicate to a service via the internet. A system which uses a service or multiple services in this fashion is known to have a service oriented architecture, and this is normally abbreviated as S-O-A or SOA, and the main idea behind SOA is instead of using packet modules within each client application, I instead use a service to provide functionality to my client applications, and this allows me to have many client applications using the same functionality. And in the future, I can have newer or different types of clients connecting to the same service reusing that functionality. And as a software architecture, SOA has been successful. It allows us to scale up our software when demand increases, by enabling us to have a copy of the service on multiple servers, so when the traffic comes in, a load balancer will redirect that request to a specific instance of the service, and we can have multiple instances of the service, so when the demand increases, we just increase the number of instances of the service running across servers. We have already mentioned the fact that service oriented architecture provides reusability, reusability of functionality. So for example, the function to create an order on a website could be the same functionality which is triggered by a mobile app on our service. So, it's the same code creating an order for both the website and the mobile application. It allows us to reuse functionality. Another key characteristic of service oriented architecture is, is the idea of having standardized contracts or interfaces. When our client application called a service, it called a service by calling a method. The signature of that method normally doesn't change when the service changes, so we can upgrade our service without having to upgrade our clients, as long as the contract and the interface, either signature of the method doesn't change, we do not have to upgrade our clients when we upgrade our service. Anther key characteristic of a service is, is the fact that they are stateless. So, when a request comes in from a website to our service, that instance of the service does not have to remember the previous request from that specific customer, that specific client. It basically has all the information from the request, that it needs in order to retrieve all the data associated with previous request within the service, so a service does not have to remember the previous call the client has made to that particular instance of the service. It's stateless, therefore any instance of the service can honor any income request from a client, because it does not have to remember any previous interaction with any other instance of a service. Now that we know what a service is, and what the service oriented architecture is, we can start introducing the microservices architecture. The microservices architecture is basically an improved version of service oriented architecture, and therefore it shares all the key characteristics of the service oriented architecture, of scalability, reusability, and standardized contracts in interface for backwards compatibility, and the idea of having a service that stateless.

